Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK)) Level 0
30 Arc Second Terrain Data

In support of military applications, the National Imagery 
and Mapping Agency (NIMA) has developed a standard digital 
dataset (Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK)) Level 0")  
which may be of value to scientific, technical, and other 
communities .  This DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) product is a uniform matrix of 
terrain elevation values which provides basic quantitative 
data for systems and applications that require terrain 
elevation, slope, and/or surface roughness information.  
DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 elevation post spacing is 30 arc second 
(nominally one kilometer).  In addition to this discrete 
elevation file, a separate binary file provides the minimum, 
maximum, and mean elevation values computed in 30 arc second 
square areas (organized by one degree cell).  Finally, DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) 
Level 0 contains the NIMA Digital Mean Elevation Data (DMED) 
providing minimum, maximum, and mean elevation values and 
standard deviation for each 15 minute by 15 minute area in a 
one degree cell.  This initial release is a "thinned" data 
file extracted from the NIMA DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 1 holdings in 
combination with other publicly releasable data.  As such, 
this version of DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 is a step toward a worldwide 
digital terrain dataset.  Efforts to fully populate a 
worldwide DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 dataset continue and formal public 
release in CD-ROM form is projected for early 1997.  The 
current DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 and subsequent releases will be 
updated consistent with established NIMA production 
maintenance procedures. 

Support from select international mapping organizations was 
instrumental in the generation of the Level 0 dataset.  The 
following nations have contributed data to this effort:  
Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, 
Spain, and the United Kingdom.  In many cases, higher 
resolution terrain data of the above listed nations is 
available for public sale.  If you are interested in 
obtaining such data over any of the above listed countries, 
please contact the civil mapping authorities of the 
individual nation directly.

This data set may be freely copied, manipulated, adapted or 
combined with other geospatial information as desired by the 
user.  It allows a gross representation of the Earth's 
surface for general modeling and assessment activities.  
Such reduced resolution data is not intended and should not 
be used for automated flight guidance or other precision 
activity involving the safety of the public.  Public domain 
software capable of displaying, manipulating and analyzing 
such data will be available through the U.S. Geological 
Survey, Branch of Information Services, Box 25286, Denver, 
Colorado 80225 (1-800-435-7627 or 1-800-HELP-MAP).

The data contained in DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 is a derivative set 
only, and does not represent the entire Department of 
Defense (DoD) archive of terrain data.  In making this data 
available to the general public, the NIMA in no way alters 
the controlled status of the remaining archives.  Technical 
support or general assistance with respect to DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 
is available only to U.S. Government users.  The NIMA 
requests that products developed using DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 credit 
the source with the following statement, “This product was 
developed using DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0, a product of the National 
Imagery and Mapping Agency.”

Warranty Disclaimers and Requirements: 

	a.  Under 10 U.S.C. § 456, no civil action may be 
brought against the United States on the basis of the 
content of data prepared or disseminated by either the 
former Defense Mapping Agency (DMA) or NIMA.  

	b.  DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 was developed to meet only the 
internal requirements of the DoD.  DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 is provided 
“as is,” and no warranty, express or implied, including but 
not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability and 
fitness for particular purpose or arising by statute or 
otherwise in law or from a course of dealing or usage in 
trade, is made by the NIMA as to the accuracy and 
functioning of the product.

	c.  Neither the NIMA nor its personnel will be liable for 
any claims, losses, or damages arising from or connected with 
the use of DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0.  The user agrees to hold harmless 
the United States National Imagery and Mapping Agency.  The 
user’s sole and exclusive remedy is to stop using DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 
0.

	d.  For any products developed using DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0, the 
NIMA requires a disclaimer that use of DTED(REGISTERED TRADEMARK) Level 0 does 
not indicate endorsement or approval of those products by 
either the Secretary of Defense, the former Defense Mapping 
Agency, or the National Imagery and Mapping Agency.  
Pursuant to the United States Code, 10 U.S.C.  445, the 
name of the Defense Mapping Agency, the initials DMA, the 
seal of the Defense Mapping Agency, the name of the National 
Imagery and Mapping Agency, the initials NIMA, the seal of 
the National Imagery and Mapping Agency, or any colorable 
imitation thereof shall not be used to imply approval, 
endorsement, or authorization of a product without prior 
written permission from United States Secretary of Defense.
